---
cover: /articles/get-started.png
author:
  name: Zain Wania
  avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1042510623962275840/1Iw_Mvud_400x400.jpg
  link: https://twitter.com/zain_wania
date: 2023-01-07
layout: article
---

# Why you should be using Tailwind

Tailwind is the definitive way to style your applications and it's not even close

## What is Tailwind?

Tailwind is a set of utility classes to help you compose and implement your own design system. THIS IS NOT BOOTSTRAP, PLEASE NO STOP.

## CSS is hard

For the majority of us, creating consistent UI experiences for our users can be difficult at times, modern frontend frameworks such as React and Vue helped with this a lot with component based design but it's not enough. When working on a team, with or without a designer, problems arise. People have different interpretations of designs, one person sees a header, sets it to one size and everything looks ok. Turns out that on another page the font size is 1-2px larger. Now this in of itself is not a huge issue but lets expand the problem. Colours slightly off, spacings, container widths, modals, alerts etc. all create issues turning your wonderful project into a frustrating mess.

### Tailwind to the rescue

Mentioned earlier, Tailwind is a carefully crafted set of utility classes with great defaults that creates a good base for your design system. I wont go too far into how all the utilities are crafted, I would highly recommend reading [Refactoring UI](https://www.refactoringui.com/) from the creator of tailwind.


## Why not Bootstrap or some other component library?

### Reasons for

Bootstrap while it does have some utility classes actually prescribes what your site will look like. They have opinions on how buttons, modals, inputs, lists and many more look. Tailwind opn the other hand is utility class based, this empowers you and your team to create what you want while giving some guidelines on specific utilities

If you want some well designed components that you still have full control of WITH Html, React and Vue skeleton code checkout [TailwindUI](https://tailwindui.com/), from the creators of Tailwind.

Tailwind, in most cases, should allow you to more easily construct your designers dreams, since everything is a util you just need to find the util most close to the potentially arbitrary px numbers

It also enforces styling rem, which you should be doing anyways.

Has breakpoints for different screen sizes


### Reasons against

- You like the style of a component library so recreating things yourself is tedious and unnecessary
- Your design chops are not up to snuff

### Node server

You can deploy Alpine to a Node server by running the following command:

```bash
npm run build
```

This command will create a `.output/` directory with the compiled files ready to be uploaded to any Node server.

To start the production server, run the following command:

```bash
node .output/server/index.mjs
```
